Homo Superior

  You belong there. You are the authority they defer to, you are the
innocent clueless guest they make an exception for, you are the friend  
from long ago they forgot they had, you are the new guy who has to be 
shown around. You always know who to be, and how to use who you are to  
get what you want. You do not allay suspicion - you're just not
suspected in the first place.

  You derive your advantage from mankind's deepest knowledge of genetic
engineering, and a lifetime of training in an incredibly wide array of  
professions, plus every social tool from fast-talking to microexpression 
reading. Situational penalties to social skills are halved for you.

Catlike Assassin

  You are there, but they don't know you're there. You are that blur 
they thought they saw in the corner of their eye, you are the 
disappearance of that guard who was supposed to be there five minutes 
ago, you are the hand on their mouth before they have a chance to 
scream. A moment before you were in the shadow on the other side of the 
room, now you are *there* - faster than they can imagine, faster than 
they can react...

  Your lithe frame hides the explosive strength of your muscles and your  
incredible mobility. Your jumps are two tiles longer, and you don't pay 
fatigue for the first two tiles of jumps.

Hulking Brute

  No-one can stop you from getting there. You bleed, but you staunch the
wound and press on. You take a bullet to the gut and make a note to get
it fixed once you're done with the mission. Your shoulder gets torn up
and you still shoot straight.

  Your entire body is an armored bastion redesigned from ground up for  
warfare. You have several copies of every vital organ, both your neural 
and circulatory systems have multiple redundant paths and bypasses 
everywhere, your skull is composite armour, and you've been trained to  
function even when badly damaged (yes, it hurt). You ignore one point of 
damage from any wound.

Half-brained Abomination

  You are already there, because you are everywhere. Your consciousness 
spans entire computer networks, and no detail in all you are aware
of escapes your attention. You don't think a single thought at a time - 
you think dozens of thoughts, overlapping in a hybrid awareness.

  Your right brain hemisphere has been scooped out to make space for a 
hyperadvanced semisentient computer, joined by the corpus callosum into 
one whole. Your thought patterns are almost unimaginable to normal human 
beings. In game terms, you gain a free multitasking slot.

Robed Ascetic

  Getting there is second nature for you, because everything is second 
nature to you. In the time it takes others to become aware of a 
situation, you have already evaluated and solved it and are confidently 
pursuing the best approach - even though awareness itself comes to you  
no faster than anyone else.

  You inherit the same genetic stock as the Homo Superior, but your 
advantage comes from a lifetime course of dedication to truly becoming  
one with yourself. You represent in a single person the greatest 
achievements of the entire field of neuropsychology, and start with all 
diagnostic disciplines already learned.  

