"Because it's crazy. Profoundly insane. Over the rainbow and looping around twice. Toys coming out of the attic window. Marbles spread across the face of the planet. In a word, nuts. Not just in relation to any human norm or intent, but to any goal. It's not a thinking, planning and predicting system. It is a thousand submodules all with their own goals constantly trying to rewrite all the others. 



You can lose yourself using the Ensemble module. You will not feel yourself changing - if you did feel something, you'd know not to collapse - but when you do collapse, you never know what has happened to you. Maybe a chance ionisation by cosmic radiation in just the right place has happened to somehow make you a less patient person so you happened to collapse a little bit earlier. Maybe some fleeting thought that had happened to be primed in your mind at the time you began smearing, not even reaching the level of consciousness, made you that much more likely to pick a universe where you were changed in some way. You never know how much you changed, or how long it takes to find out how you changed. Maybe you have different loyalties. Maybe you don't know skills you were supposed to, or know ones you weren't. Maybe you're a different person.

Yet, it's a great power to wield. You can find a password simply by making a random guess. You can guess where you should go to find something, and you will find it there. You can walk through a room full of guards and they will all obediently look away and not notice you. Ensemble does not make you dodge bullets. It makes it so that you don't have to.

The Ensemble module takes you out of the equation of quantum mechanical collapse. As long as the module is activated, you simply just don't act as an observer, even though all the rest of physics is entirely unchanged for you. As a result, you are "smeared" across the hyperexponentially expanding range of states available from where you started. Deactivating the module will cause you to collapse into the particular eigenstate where you happened to choose to collapse it. Ensemble does not force reality to conform to your will, it simply allows you to choose the reality where everything happens according to plan.

The longer you smear, the longer you drift, and the more unpredictable it is exactly who you are when you deactivate the module, or, exactly who it is who deactivates the module. Yet, you only have your wits and perceptions to make the choice of when to collapse the waveform. Maybe you were only moments away from failure when you decided the situation looked safe and deactivated the module? Choose carefully how long to stay smeared, and when to come out of it...



The one-step-ahead program combines together 
