THE NEW PARADIGM OF THE HUMAN MIND

Imagine you didn't know what an internal combustion engine was. How surprised would you be to find out that it is possible to drive an automobile forward by means of controlled explosions of a chemical derived from petroleum? What if you had no understanding of the technology of refridgeration - a condenser grille would seem like an odd, purposeless artifact. --

Or what if you were not familiar with the technology of --




The science of psychology in Straylight had its time of being imprecise and full of contradictions, with dozens of theories of social psychology, psychoanalysis, folk psychology, cognitive psychology, neuropsychology and others yet all competing and overlapping with each other. Psychology and psychiatry functioned at the bleeding edges of scientific reliability, often beyond it, reaching results only through luck and bouts of personal ingenuity by its practitioners.

But that was then. Science marched on. Little by little, the human mind revealed its secrets. The mechanisms of intelligence, the functions of memory. How the illusion of a single self rises from a web of inhibition and excitation between different modules of the brain. The eerie genius of the optimisation of each subsystem toward its task. 

In Straylight, men are becoming masters over themselves. The understanding of the brain-mind system as a singular mechanism, with detailed knowledge of its idiosyncracies far beyond the level of vague statistics, has brought about a wealth of tools. There are various trances to silence or deafen parts of the mind unnecessary for a task at hand, to reach the deep concentration necessary for people to do their best work. There are procedures for learning to see one's beliefs only in the light of unbiased rationality, and for fixing beliefs so that one will never have to suffer doubting their faith anymore. There are disciplines to control one's consciousness and perception, to act with precision and certainty in each situation. 

Just as well, there are tools in the field of medicine and neurology to enable the use of these tools of psychology. A shot of nirvanin makes you unconscious for a couple of days - still perfectly functioning and capable of everything you were while conscious, that is, just with nobody behind the wheel to experience anything for that time. Another drug produces synesthesias, some of which allow access to knowledge usually unavailable to the conscious mind - hearing the low hum of decision fatigue, or tasting the sourness of rationalization.

Every freedom grows from the blood of the soldier, except one. It takes the theorems of the mathematician just as well as the verses of the poet, the contribution of everyone from the cheapest laborers to the greatest geniuses of science, and just as much a prosperous and enlightened society as great individuals, for freedom of thought to exist. The new paradigm of the human mind is one of true freedom of thought, undisturbed by irrational fears, free of distraction and undue uncertainty. 



THE BALANCE

Even with the new understanding of the mind, though, there's no such thing as absolute freedom. Nearly every Straylightian learns a battery of basic techniques to maintain the dynamic balance of one's mind. It turns out that, once one has mastered those techniques, much of the remaining complexity can be expressed remarkably within a single comparison, between two numbers on a single scale.

The more commonly cited one of the numbers has come to be known as *integrity*. It is difficult for anyone to change their integrity - what they are left with in their early twenties tends to be what they'll have to life with for the rest of their life. It can help to learn the *diagnostic disciplines*, a sequence of exercises meant to increase one's understanding and mastery over their mind, but they can take a very long time to learn. Certain neuroleptic drugs can enhance one's integrity, but only temporarily, as the brain tends to develop tolerance very quickly.

The other number, which most people rarely need to know about themselves, is *disruption*. Disruption can well change just by the time of day or day of week, though overall it tends to hover around similar numbers for each person. 
